## C++ Sets

### Ordered vs Unordered Sets

Sets are different from maps in a way that map stores key-value pairs whereas set stores only keys.
C++ STL provides ***std::set*** container which stores the elements in sorted order.  
Another STL container ***std::unordered_set*** stores the elements in random order.
All the elements should be unique in both the containers.

An example usage is as below:

```
#include <iostream>
#include <set>
#include <unordered_set>

int main()
{
	std::set<std::string> empNames;

	// insert an entry
	empNames.insert("Maria");
	empNames.insert("Christoph");
	empNames.insert("Sebastian");

	std::cout << "Employee Names using Ordered set\n";
	for (const auto& name : empNames)
		std::cout << "Emp Name: " << name << std::endl;

	std::cout << std::endl << std::endl;

	std::unordered_set<std::string> empNamesUnOrder;

	// insert an entry
	empNamesUnOrder.insert("Maria");
	empNamesUnOrder.insert("Sebastian");
	empNamesUnOrder.insert("Christoph");

	std::cout << "Employee Names using Unordered Set\n";
	for (const auto& name : empNamesUnOrder)
		std::cout << "Emp Name: " << name << std::endl;

	return 0;
}
```

```
Output:
Employee Records using Ordered Map
Emp Code: CHR , Emp Name: Christoph
Emp Code: MAR , Emp Name: Maria
Emp Code: SEB , Emp Name: Sebastian


Employee Records using Unordered Map
Emp Code: MAR , Emp Name: Maria
Emp Code: CHR , Emp Name: Christoph
Emp Code: SEB , Emp Name: Sebastian
```

Internally, the maps and sets are implemented in the same manner. The sets are implemented using ***Self-balancing Binary Search Tree (like Red-Black Tree)***.
The complexity of all three operations - search, insert and delete is ***log(n)***.
Unordered sets are implemented using ***Hash Table***. The elements of the unordered set are hashed into indices of the hash table so that 
the insertion is always randomized. The average time complexity is ***O(1)*** and ***O(n)*** in worst case for insert, delete and search operations.

### Multisets

We read above about sets and that each element in the set should be unique i.e sets does not allow duplicate elements. Multisets are different from sets in a way that it allows duplicate values. Like sets, multisets are also ordered (std::multiset) and unordered (std::unordered_multiset). The internal implementation of ordered/unordered multiset is similar to ordered/unordered set in that they both use self-balancing BST/hash table, but in case of multiset, a separate count value is also associated with each element to denote the number of entries for each element.
